work on definition of comparison operators (#63)
jakartaee/query: spec/src/main/asciidoc/chapters/language/expressions.adoc

The equality and inequality operators are `=`, `&lt;&gt;`, `&lt;`, `&gt;`, `&lt;=`, `&gt;=`.

The operands of an equality or inequality operator must have the same type,
 and it must be an atomic type considered _comparable_ by the implementation of Jakarta Query.
Any type with a <<natural-order,natural order>> must be treated as a comparable type, and the equality and inequality operators must be interpreted in a way which is consistent with the natural order.

[cols="15,~"]
|===
| Operator | Interpretation in terms of natural order

| `x < y` | Satisfied if `x` occurs before `y` in the natural order
| `x > y` | Satisfied if `x` occurs after `y` in the natural order
| `x <= y` | Satisfied if `x>y` is not satisfied
| `x >= y` | Satisfied if `x<y` is not satisfied

> | `x = y` | Satisfied if neither `x>y` nor `x<y` is satisfied

Author: @otaviojava This is the closest we come to a definition of equality in Jakarta Query. Note that it's by definition consistent with the natural order.

I will add an admonition pointing out that `=` is different to `BigDecimal.equals()`.

The equality and inequality operators are `=`, `&lt;&gt;`, `&lt;`, `&gt;`, `&lt;=`, `&gt;=`.

The operands of an equality or inequality operator must have the same type,
 and it must be an atomic type considered _comparable_ by the implementation of Jakarta Query.
Any type with a <<natural-order,natural order>> must be treated as a comparable type, and the equality and inequality operators must be interpreted in a way which is consistent with the natural order.

[cols="15,~"]
|===
| Operator | Interpretation in terms of natural order

| `x < y` | Satisfied if `x` occurs before `y` in the natural order
| `x > y` | Satisfied if `x` occurs after `y` in the natural order

> | `x <= y` | Satisfied if `x>y` is not satisfied
> | `x >= y` | Satisfied if `x<y` is not satisfied

Reviewer: Similarly here, if `5 > null` is not satisfied, that should not imply that `5 <= null` (except for if `NULLS LAST` is used)

If the language from my other comment is acceptable, we could do this:
```suggestion
| `x <= y` | Satisfied if `x` occurs before or at identical position to `y` in the natural order
| `x >= y` | Satisfied if `x` occurs after or at identical position to `y` in the natural order
```

> | `x = y` | Satisfied if neither `x>y` nor `x<y` is satisfied

Reviewer: I saw your later TODO about nulls, where we will need to avoid the possibility that neither `null < y` nor `null > y` are satisfied implies that `null = y` is satisfied.  Would the following work?
```suggestion
| `x = y` | Satisfied if `x` and `y` occur at identical position in the natural order
```

Author: @njr-11 I've added language clarifying what's going on with `null`.

Actually I had not forgotten about it, I had previously left it as a TODO:

> **TODO** what can we say in general about null values?

This is all a bit complicated to deal with right now because of the multiple open pull requests dealing with interlocking concerns. So I would like to just get all this shit integrated and then revisit the everything later when we can see it all in front of us at once.

| `x <> y` | Satisfied if either `x>y` or `x<y` is satisfied
|===

**TODO** what can we say in general about null values?

In an implementation of Jakarta Query which targets clients written in Java, every primitive or primitive wrapper type is considered comparable, along with `java.lang.String`, `java.math.BigInteger`, `java.math.BigDecimal`, and types representing dates and datetimes.

- For primitive types, these operators have the same meaning they have in Java, except for `<>` which has the same meaning that `!=` has in Java. Such an operator expression is satisfied when the equivalent operator expression would evaluate to `true` in Java.
- For wrapper types, these operators are satisfied if both operands evaluate to non-null values, and the equivalent operator expression involving primitives would be satisfied.
- For other types, these operators are usually evaluated according to the native semantics of the database.

NOTE: Portability is maximized when Jakarta Query providers interpret equality and inequality operators in a manner consistent with the implementation of `Object.equals()` or `Comparable.compareTo()` for the assigned Java type.

> footnote:[A notable special case is `java.math.BigDecimal`, whose implementation of `equals()` is inconsistent with its implementation of `compareTo()`. For `BigDecimal`, the `=` operator in Jakarta Data should be implemented for consistency with `compareTo()`.]

Author: cc @otaviojava
